# Software Debouncing
When buttons are pressed, unless the button is very well designed mechanically, the button can bounce back down (or up) if it is pressed.  In order to get around this, software techniques can be used to eliminate this affect.  On the button down press, you can dissable the button down functionality for a small period of time incase it bounces.  Then you can re enable the button.  However, if the button is held down and not immediately released, the button will be re enabled before it gets released again.  One technique could be to disable the button until a small amount of time after the button has been kept up.  The only down side is that power will have to be used to poll the button and wait for the button to be released.  This also holds up the processor so that it cant run any other code until it the button is released.

Interrupts help accomplish this task with little power and it wont hold up the processor.  A button interrupt can be used instead of polling a buttons status for start.  If the processor is supposed to wait on a button press, you can put the processor in low power mode rather than a loop to wait.  In order to accomplish the debouncing, the button interrupt can be enabled, and a timer interrupt can be set.  Then a timer will kick off for a short amount of time while the processor sleeps, or does other tasks.  When the time hits the set limit, the button status will be checked.  If the button was released, the button interrupt will be reset as the falling edge.  If the button is still down however, the interrupt will be set to the rising edge, and it will wait for the button to be released.  After the button is released, the same timer will be set and the button enable will be turned off.  Once the timer runs out, the button interrup will be set to the falling edge and everything will be back to the begining.
